feat(ktableview): add component [KHCP-9499] (#2338)
Kong/kongponents: docs/components/table-view.md

    name: 'Leanne Graham', 
    username: 'Bret',
    email: 'Sincere@april.biz'
  },
  {
    id: 2,
    name: 'Ervin Howell',
    username: 'Antonette',
    email: 'Shanna@melissa.tv'
  },
  ...
])

const sortData = (sortData: TableSortPayload): void => {
  const data = [...tableData.value]
  const { sortColumnKey, sortColumnOrder } = sortData || { sortColumnKey: 'username', sortColumnOrder: 'asc' }

  data.sort((a: TableDataEntry, b: TableDataEntry) => {
    if (sortColumnKey === 'username') {
      if (sortColumnOrder === 'asc') {
        if (a.username > b.username) {
          return 1
        } else if (a.username < b.username) {
          return -1
        }

        return 0
      } else {
        if (a.username > b.username) {
          return -1
        } else if (a.username < b.username) {
          return 1
        }

        return 0
      }
    }

    return 0
  })

  tableData.value = data
}
</script>
```

:::tip NOTE
Notice that in the example above the _Username_ column is `sortable` and the _Email_ column is `hidable`.
:::

#### Reserved Data Keys

:::warning NOTE
This feature is only available in KTableView and not available in [KTable](/components/table).
:::

> - `to` - if you wish to make the whole row a link, you can pass `to` parameter in each `data` entry. If an object is passed, it will be rendered as `<router-link>` component or otherwise if a string is passed, it will be rendered as an anchor tag. Clicking anywhere on table row will trigger route change. Refer to the example below for usage.

Author: > this would require mutating table data

Since data manipulations are handled by the host app rather than KTableView component, I think this is acceptable?

Right-click support is a deal breaker and a long awaited feature for table component. In my opinion, a reserved key is the easiest way to turn the entire row into a link. I'm not sure how we could implement that using a slot like you suggested. Could you provide more details as to how you imagine I could make it work?

> - `to` - if you wish to make the whole row a link, you can pass `to` parameter in each `data` entry. If an object is passed, it will be rendered as `<router-link>` component or otherwise if a string is passed, it will be rendered as an anchor tag. Clicking anywhere on table row will trigger route change. Refer to the example below for usage.

Reviewer: > Since data manipulations are handled by the host app rather than KTableView component, I think this is acceptable?

A component that is meant to display data shouldn’t restrict the data/column names for that data. 

I’m not sure anything I mentioned involves right-click support? The table row itself can be a link, but it shouldn’t be tied to a property of the data object the table is displaying. 

It could be a config on the cell itself, slot content, or maybe even a factory function for each row to generate the link.

> - `to` - if you wish to make the whole row a link, you can pass `to` parameter in each `data` entry. If an object is passed, it will be rendered as `<router-link>` component or otherwise if a string is passed, it will be rendered as an anchor tag. Clicking anywhere on table row will trigger route change. Refer to the example below for usage.

Author: How about a new prop `rowLink: Function`. It would take a function as a parameter and the reason for that is because we need a way for component to pass back row value so that the function returns the correct dynamic route.

> - `to` - if you wish to make the whole row a link, you can pass `to` parameter in each `data` entry. If an object is passed, it will be rendered as `<router-link>` component or otherwise if a string is passed, it will be rendered as an anchor tag. Clicking anywhere on table row will trigger route change. Refer to the example below for usage.

Author: Actually I think this is something we can introduce and support in both KTable and KTableView (I think we should maintain parity between the two components, to an extend).

> - `to` - if you wish to make the whole row a link, you can pass `to` parameter in each `data` entry. If an object is passed, it will be rendered as `<router-link>` component or otherwise if a string is passed, it will be rendered as an anchor tag. Clicking anywhere on table row will trigger route change. Refer to the example below for usage.

Author: So I decided to use `rowAttrs` prop for this. The prop takes a function that returns an object which have optional parameters `to` and `target` for making the whole row a link (see [docs](https://deploy-preview-2338--kongponents.netlify.app/components/table-view.html#row-links)). I think this is much better than including those keys in `data` prop. Lmk what you think.

> - `to` - if you wish to make the whole row a link, you can pass `to` parameter in each `data` entry. If an object is passed, it will be rendered as `<router-link>` component or otherwise if a string is passed, it will be rendered as an anchor tag. Clicking anywhere on table row will trigger route change. Refer to the example below for usage.

Reviewer: Utilizing `rowAttrs` here is a bit confusing to be honest. Turning a row into a link isn't really related to HTML attributes being passed to the row (e.g. like `data-testid`, etc.)

It's better than the previous iteration, but is there a reason there can't be a separate prop specifically for a row link?

> - `to` - if you wish to make the whole row a link, you can pass `to` parameter in each `data` entry. If an object is passed, it will be rendered as `<router-link>` component or otherwise if a string is passed, it will be rendered as an anchor tag. Clicking anywhere on table row will trigger route change. Refer to the example below for usage.

Author: I think it can be - I was just trying to avoid adding an extra arbitrary prop but maybe it's better to just add one rather than complicate existing ones.. is that your thinking here too?

> - `to` - if you wish to make the whole row a link, you can pass `to` parameter in each `data` entry. If an object is passed, it will be rendered as `<router-link>` component or otherwise if a string is passed, it will be rendered as an anchor tag. Clicking anywhere on table row will trigger route change. Refer to the example below for usage.

Reviewer: Yes I think since having "row links" is a net-new feature, adding it as a separate row-level "config" is ideal. So it can work similar to `rowAttrs` but something like `rowLink` instead

    target: '_blank',
  },
  ...
])
</script>
```

### loading

Boolean to control whether the component should display the loading state.

<KTableView
  loading
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
/>

```html
<KTableView
  loading
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
/>
```

### error

Boolean to control whether the component should display the error state. Defaults to `false`. See [error state](#error-1) section for more customization options.

<KTableView
  error
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
/>

```html
<KTableView
  error
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
/>
```

### resizeColumns

Allow table column width to be resizable (defaults to `false`). Adjusting a column's width will trigger an [`update:table-preferences` event](#updatetable-preferences).

<KTableView
  resize-columns
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
/>

```html
<KTableView
  resize-columns
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
/>
```

### rowHover

Boolean to control whether table should display hover state upon hovering rows. Defaults to `true`.

### tablePreferences

Table preferences object for persisting some configs.

```ts
interface TablePreferences {

>   pageSize?: number // the number of items to display per page

Reviewer: If pagination isn’t included, what value does the page size serve here?

Author: This interface is shared between KTable and KTableView and [useTablePreferences composable](https://github.com/Kong/public-ui-components/tree/main/packages/core/core/src/useTablePreferences) uses it.

Reviewer: So then can’t we utilize a separate interface that extends the base one…?

Author: I think that would be confusing? I'm fine with removing references to these parameters from this docs section but I don't think we should create a separate interface because then we would have to create a new or alter the existing `useTablePreferences` composable. Since those fields are optional anyways, I think we can still use the original interface for both components.

Reviewer: You can use the same composable since the property is optional, but for the KTableVoew you can `Omit` the extra property from a similarly-named interface since it doesn't do anything. 

I understand wanting to keep a close parity between components, but inevitably over time they will both need to differ in places since they are fundamentally different under the hood.

Author: Now that pagination is included, I suppose we don't need a new interface?

Reviewer: Does it utilize _all_ of the same properties? (are there any the new component does not utilize?)

Author: Nope, all of them

# Table View

Component for displaying data in table format.

:::tip NOTE

> KTableView is a display-only component, it does not provide any data management capabilities like fetching, pagination, sorting or searching. If you are looking for a component that includes those functions out of the box, check out [KTable](/components/table).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KTableView does not handle data management capabilities like data fetching, functional pagination, sorting or searching. If you are looking for a component that integrates with the data layer, check out [KTable](/components/table).
```

Doesn't KTableView handle sorting though?

Author: No, it only emits an event (can't handle sorting since `data` prop could only be accepting a paginated piece of otherwise larger dataset).

:::

<KTableView
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
/>

```html
<KTableView
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
/>
```

## Props

### headers

Array of objects that represent table columns along with some configurations that should apply to each of the columns (whether a column is sortable, hidable, etc).

```ts
interface TableViewHeader {

>   key: string | 'actions' // must be unique for each column, see Reserved Header Keys section for more information about 'actions' key value

Reviewer: issue: I'm not sure `actions` should be in the interface here; see my other comment.

  label: string // visible column header text
  sortable?: boolean // in a nutshell, this property defines whether sort icon should be displayed next to the column header and whether the column header will emit sort event upon clicking on it
  hidable?: boolean // allow toggling column visibility
  tooltip?: string // when provided, an info icon will be rendered next to the column label, upon hovering on which the tooltip will be revealed
  hideLabel?: boolean // whether column header text should be hidden (only visible to screen readers)
}
```

:::tip NOTE

> If at least one column is `hidable` in the table, KTableView will render a dropdown on the right of the table toolbar, directly above the table, which will provide an interface for showing/hiding columns to the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If at least one column is `hidable` in the table, KTableView will render a dropdown on the right of the table toolbar directly above the table, which will provide an interface for showing/hiding columns to the user.
```

:::

> For an example of `headers` prop usage please refer to [`data` prop documentation](#data) below.

Reviewer: Update sentence for after moving `data` above `headers`

#### Reserved Header Keys

> :::warning NOTE
> This feature is only available in KTableView and not available in [KTable](/components/table).
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I don't think we need these notes; there is no assumption that props are available in both components or that the component interfaces are the same.

> - `actions` - the column is treated as a column that only displays action dropdown menus for each row and displays no label (as if `hideLabel` was `true`, however you can still display the label by setting `hideLabel` parameter to `false`). KViewTable will automatically render the trigger button with an icon, however you will need to pass dropdown items through the [`actions-items` slot](#actions-items).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `actions` - the column displays an "Actions" `KDropdownMenu` button for each row and displays no label (as if `hideLabel` was `true`; set `hideLabel` to `true` to show the column header label). KTableView will automatically render the actions dropdown button with an icon, and then simply provide the dropdown items via the [`action-items` slot](#actions-items).
```

- Changed `actions-items` to `action-items`
- Changed `KViewTable` to `KTableView`

### data

> Data to be rendered in the table. Accepted type is array of objects where each key should correspond to a certain `key` in [`headers` prop](#headers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data to be rendered in the table. Accepted interface is an array of objects where each property key should have a corresponding `key` in the [`headers` prop](#headers).
```

```ts

> type TableData = Array<Record<string, any>>

Reviewer: nit: use our regular format
```suggestion
type TableData = Record<string, any>[]
```

  {
    id: 1,
    // notice that property keys in data object correspond to each respective key in headers const
    name: 'Leanne Graham', 
    username: 'Bret',
    email: 'Sincere@april.biz'
  },
  {
    id: 2,
    name: 'Ervin Howell',
    username: 'Antonette',
    email: 'Shanna@melissa.tv'
  },
  ...
])

const sortData = (sortData: TableSortPayload): void => {
  const data = [...tableData.value]
  const { sortColumnKey, sortColumnOrder } = sortData || { sortColumnKey: 'username', sortColumnOrder: 'asc' }

  data.sort((a: Record<string, any>, b: Record<string, any>) => {
    if (sortColumnKey === 'username') {
      if (sortColumnOrder === 'asc') {
        if (a.username > b.username) {
          return 1
        } else if (a.username < b.username) {
          return -1
        }

        return 0
      } else {
        if (a.username > b.username) {
          return -1
        } else if (a.username < b.username) {
          return 1
        }

        return 0
      }
    }

    return 0
  })

  tableData.value = data
}
</script>
```

:::tip NOTE
Notice that in the example above the _Username_ column is `sortable` and the _Email_ column is `hidable`.
:::

### loading

> Boolean to control whether the component should display the loading state.

Reviewer: Add "Defaults to `false`"

<KTableView
  loading
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
/>

```html
<KTableView
  loading
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
/>
```

### error

Boolean to control whether the component should display the error state. Defaults to `false`. See [error state](#error-1) section for more customization options.

<KTableView
  error
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
/>

```html
<KTableView
  error
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
/>
```

### resizeColumns

Allow table column width to be resizable (defaults to `false`). Adjusting a column's width will trigger an [`update:table-preferences` event](#updatetable-preferences).

<KTableView
  resize-columns
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
/>

```html
<KTableView
  resize-columns
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
/>
```

### rowHover

Boolean to control whether table should display hover state upon hovering rows. Defaults to `true`.

### tablePreferences

> Table preferences object for persisting some configs.

Reviewer: question: why do we say "persisting" here?

> Table preferences object for persisting some configs.

Author: I suppose that's driven by our own use case?

> Table preferences object for persisting some configs.

Reviewer: Do the preferences actually persist with the built-in functionality? If not, I think we should reword even if we do something different in Konnect

> Table preferences object for persisting some configs.

Author: Removed the word "persisting" from this sentence - still sense and isn't contradictory.

<script setup lang="ts">
import type { TableRowAttributes } from '@kong/kongponents'

const headers = [...]

const tableData = [...]

const getRowAttrs = (row: Record<string, any>): TableRowAttributes => ({
  // using static route for demonstration purposes
  // but you can generate dynamic routes based on the row data
  to: { name: 'home' }, // pass a string to render the link as an anchor element instead of a router-link
  target: '_blank',
})
</script>
```

### cellAttrs

Function for adding custom attributes to each table cell. The function should return an object with `key: value` pairs for each attribute.

The passed function receives an object with these parameters as an argument:
```ts
{
  headerKey: string // header key
  row: object // row value
  rowIndex: number // row index
  colIndex: index // column index
}
```

<KTableView
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
  :cell-attrs="({ headerKey, row }) => { return { 'data-testid': `column-${headerKey}-row-${row.id}` } }"
/>

```html
<KTableView
  :cell-attrs="({ headerKey, row }) => { return { 'data-testid': `column-${headerKey}-row-${row.id}` } }"
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
/>
```

### maxHeight

> Pass a number (px) you want to limit table height to. If the height table exceeds the specified number, it will be scrollable. Table header is a `position: sticky;` element and will always be visible.

Reviewer: question: is the table header **always** sticky?

> Pass a number (px) you want to limit table height to. If the height table exceeds the specified number, it will be scrollable. Table header is a `position: sticky;` element and will always be visible.

Author: Yes. Doesn't matter whether the height is limited or now - that makes the logic simpler

> Pass a number (px) you want to limit table height to. If the height table exceeds the specified number, it will be scrollable. Table header is a `position: sticky;` element and will always be visible.

Reviewer: I'm wondering if we may end up with some issues with the sticky header in Konnect, but I can't remember what area I was thinking this could be an issue

> Pass a number (px) you want to limit table height to. If the height table exceeds the specified number, it will be scrollable. Table header is a `position: sticky;` element and will always be visible.

Author: It's been sticky in KTable since... at least reskin but maybe forever

> Pass a number (px) you want to limit table height to. If the height table exceeds the specified number, it will be scrollable. Table header is a `position: sticky;` element and will always be visible.

Reviewer: ah 😅

:::

When empty state action button is clicked, KTableView emits the `empty-state-action-click` event.

<KTableView 
  :data="[]"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
  empty-state-title="No Workspaces exist"
  empty-state-message="Adding a new Workspace will populate this catalog."
  empty-state-icon-variant="kong"
  empty-state-action-message="Create a Workspace"
  empty-state-action-route="/"
  empty-state-button-appearance="secondary"
>
  <template #empty-state-action-icon>
    <AddIcon />
  </template>
</KTableView>

```html
<KTableView 
  :data="[]"
  :headers="headers"
  empty-state-title="No Workspaces exist"
  empty-state-message="Adding a new Workspace will populate this table."
  empty-state-icon-variant="kong"
  empty-state-action-message="Create a Workspace"
  empty-state-action-route="/"
  empty-state-button-appearance="secondary"
>
  <template #empty-state-action-icon>
    <AddIcon />
  </template>
</KTableView>
```

### Error

Set the `error` prop to `true` to enable the error state.

<KTableView
  error
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
/>

```html
<KTableView
  error
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
/>
```

> Set the following properties to customize error state:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the following properties to customize the error state:
```

- `errorStateTitle` - Title text for error state
- `errorStateMessage` - Message for error state
- `errorStateActionMessage` - Button text for error state action

> - `errorStateActionRoute` - Route for error state action

Reviewer: issue/question: is `errorStateActionRoute` a new prop for this component? What if it's an external link? the interface defined is just `Object | string` this seems wrong?

Author: It's not new - migrated over from KTable

Reviewer: It's a very loose interface 🤔

Author: Agreed, pushed an improvement

> - `errorStateTitle` - Title text for error state
> - `errorStateMessage` - Message for error state
> - `errorStateActionMessage` - Button text for error state action
> - `errorStateActionRoute` - Route for error state action
> 
> A `error-action-click` event is fired when error state action button is clicked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `errorStateTitle` - Title text for the error state
- `errorStateMessage` - Message for the error state
- `errorStateActionMessage` - Button text for the error state action
- `errorStateActionRoute` - Route for the error state action

A `error-action-click` event is fired when error state action button is clicked.
```

> A `error-action-click` event is fired when error state action button is clicked.

Reviewer: Replace all instances of `fired` with `emitted`

<KTableView
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
  error
  error-state-title="Something went wrong"
  error-state-message="Error loading data."
  error-state-action-message="Report an Issue"
  error-state-action-route="/"
/>

```html
<KTableView
  error
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
  error-state-title="Something went wrong"
  error-state-message="Error loading data."
  error-state-action-message="Report an Issue"
  error-state-action-route="/"
/>
```

## Slots

### Column Header

You can slot in your custom content into each column header. For that, use column `key` value prefixed with `column-*` like in the example below.

Slot props:
* `column` - column header object

> :::tip NOTE
> Header slot container is a `display: flex;` element that takes care of spacing between slotted items so you can slot in your items without having to worry about adding margin between them.
> :::

Reviewer: nit: I'm not sure this is needed; we don't typically call out CSS implementation in the docs; it should be obvious here.
```suggestion
```

Author: Agreed

<KTableView
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
>
  <template #column-email="{ column }">
    {{ column.label }} <KBadge>Beta</KBadge>
  </template>
</KTableView>

```html
<KTableView
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
>
  <template #column-email="{ column }">
    {{ column.label }} <KBadge>Beta</KBadge>
  </template>
</KTableView>
```

### Cell

> You can slot in each individual cell content. Each cell slot is name after the `key` it corresponds to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can provide each individual cell's content via slot. Each cell slot is named after the header `key` it corresponds to.
```

Slot props:
* `row` - table row object
* `rowKey` - table row index
* `rowValue` - the cell value

:::warning NOTE

> This slot is not supported for [`actions` column](#reserved-header-keys).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This slot is not supported for the [`actions` column](#reserved-header-keys).
```

:::

<KTableView
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
>
  <template #email="{ rowValue }">
    <KCopy :text="rowValue" />
  </template>
</KTableView>

```html
<KTableView
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
>
  <template #email="{ rowValue }">
    <KCopy :text="rowValue" />
  </template>
</KTableView>
```

### Header Tooltip

> If you want to utilize HTML in the column header's tooltip, use the slot. Similar to column header slot, use column `key` value prefixed with `tooltip-*` like in the example below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Utilize HTML in the column header's tooltip by utilizing this slot. Similar to the column header slot, it uses the column `key` value prefixed with `tooltip-*` as shown in the example below.
```

Slot props:
* `column` - column header object

<KTableView
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
>
  <template #tooltip-email>
    HubSpot Id: <code>8576925e-d7e0-4ecd-8f14-15db1765e69a</code>
  </template>
</KTableView>

```html
<KTableView
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
>
  <template #tooltip-email>
    HubSpot Id: <code>8576925e-d7e0-4ecd-8f14-15db1765e69a</code>
  </template>
</KTableView>
```

### toolbar

> Toolbar is rendered directly above the table. Useful for slotting table controls like search or filter fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The toolbar is rendered directly above the table and is useful for providing table controls like search or filter fields.
```

> :::tip NOTE
> Toolbar slot container is a `display: flex;` element that takes care of spacing between slotted items so you can slot in your items without having to worry about adding margin between them.
> :::

Reviewer: nit: I don't think we need to call this out
```suggestion
```

<KTableView
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
>
  <template #toolbar>
    <KInput placeholder="Search">
      <template #before>
        <SearchIcon />
      </template>
    </KInput>
    <KButton size="large">
      <AddIcon /> Add user
    </KButton>
  </template>
</KTableView>

```html
<KTableView
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
>
  <template #toolbar>
    <KInput placeholder="Search">
      <template #before>
        <SearchIcon />
      </template>
    </KInput>
    <KButton size="large">
      <AddIcon /> Add user
    </KButton>
  </template>
</KTableView>
```

### empty-state

Slot content to be displayed when empty.

### empty-state-action-icon

Slot for icon to be displayed in front of action button text in empty state. See [empty state](#empty) section for example of usage of this slot.

### error-state

Slot content to be displayed when in error state.

> ### actions-items

Reviewer: see other comments, rename to `action-items`

> :::warning NOTE
> This slot is only available in KTableView and not available in [KTable](/components/table).
> :::

Reviewer: Warning isn't needed, this is a different component
```suggestion
```

> Slot for passing actions dropdown items. See [KDropdownItem component docs](/components/dropdown#kdropdownitem) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Slot for passing action dropdown items. See [KDropdownItem component docs](/components/dropdown#kdropdownitem) for details.
```

Slot props:
* `row` - table row object
* `rowKey` - table row index

:::tip NOTE

> This slot is only available when `actions` header hey is present in [`headers` prop](#reserved-header-keys).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This slot is only available when the `actions` header key is present in [`headers`](#reserved-header-keys).
```

:::

<KTableView
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders(true)"
>
  <template #actions-items>
    <KDropdownItem>
      Edit
    </KDropdownItem>
    <KDropdownItem
      danger
      has-divider
    >
      Delete
    </KDropdownItem>
  </template>
</KTableView>

```html
<KTableView
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
>
  <template #actions-items>
    <KDropdownItem>
      Edit
    </KDropdownItem>
    <KDropdownItem
      danger
      has-divider
    >
      Delete
    </KDropdownItem>
  </template>
</KTableView>
```

### after

> :::warning NOTE
> This slot is only available in KTableView and not available in [KTable](/components/table).
> :::

Reviewer: Warning isn't needed, this is a different component
```suggestion
```

> Slot for content that should be rendered below the table. For example, could be used for displaying pagination component.

Reviewer: Is this slot still needed now that we're baking in pagination component?

Author: Yes - part of component brief.

Reviewer: what would a user slot in below the pagination?

Author: Maybe pagination that's not KPagination? Can't think of our internal use case though. Remove the slot?

Author: No we have a `hidePagination` prop

Reviewer: So if a user wanted to utilize their own KPagination (or something) instead of the built-in, do they need a slot, or can they just place it under the table? 

If they don't need the slot, let's just remove it.

    <KInputSwitch
      v-model="data.cellClickEnabled"
      label="Cell clicks"
    />
    <KTableView
      :data="numberedColumnsData"
      :headers="numberedHeaders"
      @cell:click="data.cellClickEnabled ? onCellClick : undefined"
    >
      <template #column1>
        <KButton @click="onButtonClick">Fire button click handler</KButton>
      </template>
      <template #column2>
        <KInput label="Table input" />
      </template>
      <template #column3>
        <KExternalLink href="https://kongponents.konghq.com/">External link</KExternalLink>
      </template>
    </KTableView>
  </div>
</KComponent>

```html
<KTableView
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
  @cell:click="onCellClick"
/>
```

### sort

Fired when user clicks on a sortable column heading. Event payload is object of type `TableSortPayload`:

```ts
interface TableSortPayload {
  prevKey: string
  sortColumnKey: string
  sortColumnOrder: string
}
```

Refer to [`data` prop usage](#data) for example.

### empty-state-action-click

Emitted when empty state action button is clocked.

### error-action-click

Emitted when error state action button is clicked.

### update:table-preferences

> Fired when the user performs sorting, resizes columns or toggles column visibility. Event payload is object of type `TablePreferences` interface (see [`tablePreferences` prop](#tablepreferences) for details).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Emitted when the user performs sorting, resizes columns or toggles column visibility. Event payload is object of type `TablePreferences` interface (see [`tablePreferences` prop](#tablepreferences) for details).
```

# Table View

Component for displaying data in table format.

:::tip NOTE
KTableView does not handle data management capabilities like data fetching, functional pagination, sorting or searching. If you are looking for a component that integrates with the data layer, check out [KTable](/components/table).
:::

<KTableView
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"

> />

Reviewer: issue: the pagination on this example is not functional. If that's expected, we should remove the pagination (need to check the rest of the examples as well)

Also, several of the pagination counts say `1 to 0 of 0`

Author: Added hidePagination everywhere where pagination is not relevant in the example.

Reviewer: But if it wasn't functional, should the table know not to show it or something?

Author: Eh so it can't be fully "smart" like that but I've pushed a change so that it relies on paginationAttributes a bit more to determine if it needs to show pagination (hide if `props.paginationAttributes.totalCount <= props.data.length`)

Reviewer: It now looks like the pagination is now not visible on any table examples on the docs page; I'm not sure that's intended/desirable either?

Author: It's hidden on all examples because it's irrelevant everywhere except for `paginationAttributes` prop example (there it is visible & functional)

```ts
interface TableViewHeader {
  key: string // must be unique for each column, see Reserved Header Keys section for more information about 'actions' key value
  label: string // visible column header text
  sortable?: boolean // in a nutshell, this property defines whether sort icon should be displayed next to the column header and whether the column header will emit sort event upon clicking on it
  hidable?: boolean // allow toggling column visibility
  tooltip?: string // when provided, an info icon will be rendered next to the column label, upon hovering on which the tooltip will be revealed
  hideLabel?: boolean // whether column header text should be hidden (only visible to screen readers)
}
```

:::tip NOTE
If at least one column is `hidable` in the table, KTableView will render a dropdown on the right of the table toolbar directly above the table, which will provide an interface for showing/hiding columns to the user.
:::

For an example of `headers` prop usage please refer to [`data` prop documentation](#data) below.

#### Reserved Header Keys

> - `actions` - the column displays an actions [KDropdow](/components/dropdown) button for each row and displays no label (as if `hideLabel` was `true`; you can set `hideLabel` parameter to `false` to show the label). KTableView will automatically render the actions dropdown button with an icon and you simply need to provide dropdown items via the [`action-items` slot](#action-items).

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
- `actions` - the column displays an actions [KDropdown](/components/dropdown) button for each row and displays no label (as if `hideLabel` was `true`; you can set `hideLabel` parameter to `false` to show the label). KTableView will automatically render the actions dropdown button with an icon and you simply need to provide dropdown items via the [`action-items` slot](#action-items).
```

Notice that in the example above the _Username_ column is `sortable` and the _Email_ column is `hidable`.
:::

### loading

Boolean to control whether the component should display the loading state. Defaults to `false`.

<KTableView
  loading
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
/>

```html
<KTableView
  loading
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
/>
```

### error

Boolean to control whether the component should display the error state. Defaults to `false`. See [error state](#error-1) section for more customization options.

<KTableView
  error
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
/>

```html
<KTableView
  error
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
/>
```

### resizeColumns

Allow table column width to be resizable (defaults to `false`). Adjusting a column's width will trigger an [`update:table-preferences` event](#updatetable-preferences).

<KTableView
  resize-columns
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
/>

```html
<KTableView
  resize-columns
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
/>
```

### rowHover

Boolean to control whether table should display hover state upon hovering rows. Defaults to `true`.

### tablePreferences

> Table preferences object for some configuration options.

Reviewer: docs: this sentence doesn't accurately describe what this prop is for, or how to use it

Author: I expanded this sentence a little, not sure if it became clearer.

```ts
interface TablePreferences {
  pageSize?: number // the number of items to display per page
  sortColumnKey?: string // the column to sort by's `key` defined in the table headers
  sortColumnOrder?: SortColumnOrder // the order by which to sort the column, one of `asc` or `desc`
  columnWidths?: Record<string, number> // the customized column widths, if resizing is allowed

>   columnVisibility?: Record<string, boolean> // column visibility, if visibility is toggleable

Reviewer: nit: can you move the comments above each property so you can read them without having to scroll horizontally?

Author: Done

/>

```html
<KTableView
  :cell-attrs="({ headerKey, row }) => { return { 'data-testid': `column-${headerKey}-row-${row.id}` } }"
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
/>
```

### maxHeight

Limit the table height by passing a number, in pixels. If the table height exceeds the specified number, it will be scrollable. Table header is a `position: sticky;` element and will always be visible.

<KTableView
  max-height="300"
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
/>

```html
<KTableView
  max-height="300"
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
/>
```

### paginationAttributes

Object to be passed to underlying pagination component. See [KPagination props](/components/pagination#props) for more details. Expects an object of type `TablePaginationAttributes`:

```ts
interface TablePaginationAttributes {
  totalCount?: number
  pageSizes?: number[]
  initialPageSize?: number
  currentPage?: number
  offset?: boolean
  disablePageJump?: boolean
  offsetPreviousButtonDisabled?: boolean
  offsetNextButtonDisabled?: boolean
}
```

<KTableView
  :pagination-attributes="{ totalCount: 100, currentPage: 3 }"
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"

> />

Reviewer: issue: This example isn't functional; the current page never updates and changing the page size doesn't do anything

Author: Fixed

Reviewer: The pagination isn't visible now?

Author: Sorry, made it visible & functional

:::

<KTableView
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders(true)"
>
  <template #action-items>
    <KDropdownItem>
      Edit
    </KDropdownItem>
    <KDropdownItem
      danger
      has-divider
    >
      Delete
    </KDropdownItem>
  </template>
</KTableView>

```html
<KTableView
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
>
  <template #action-items>
    <KDropdownItem>
      Edit
    </KDropdownItem>
    <KDropdownItem
      danger
      has-divider
    >
      Delete
    </KDropdownItem>
  </template>
</KTableView>
```

### after

Slot for content that should be rendered below the table. For example, could be used for displaying custom pagination component.

<KTableView
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
>
  <template #after>
    <KPagination
      :items="basicData"
      :total-count="basicData.length"
    />
  </template>
</KTableView>

```html
<KTableView
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
>
  <template #after>
    <KPagination
      :items="tableData"
      :total-count="tableData.length"
      @page-change="onPageChange"
    />
  </template>
</KTableView>
```

## Events

> ### Row Events

Reviewer: issue: the row events and cell events examples are pretty confusing; there is so much going on in each cell I'm not sure what the example is trying to show me. Can we simplify?

Author: I mean they are but I think it's one of those things that you need to know what you're looking for? The button, the input field and an external link are there to just demonstrate that you can both click on row/cell and other interactive elements within the table and handle those clicks separately.

Author: In other words, it doesn't look confusing once you know what too look for in that example but I also don't know how to make it less confusing for those who don't know what exactly they are looking for

Reviewer: I don't think the "rowEvents" and "cellEvents" examples should look exactly the same - I can't tell what the difference is between the two examples

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ac4d5203-0396-48d5-93d9-91a9aa2145f1)

We should rework this

Author: Oh, that's a good point, they don't have to be identical. Changed them up a bit and added a sentence in front of the example to better clarify what the example is demonstrating.

:::

<KTableView
  :data="basicData"
  :headers="basicHeaders(true)"
  :pagination-attributes="{ totalCount: basicData.length }"
>
  <template #action-items>
    <KDropdownItem>
      Edit
    </KDropdownItem>
    <KDropdownItem
      danger
      has-divider
    >
      Delete
    </KDropdownItem>
  </template>
</KTableView>

```html
<KTableView
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
  :pagination-attributes="{ totalCount: tableData.length }"
>
  <template #action-items>
    <KDropdownItem>
      Edit
    </KDropdownItem>
    <KDropdownItem
      danger
      has-divider
    >
      Delete
    </KDropdownItem>
  </template>
</KTableView>
```

## Events

### Row Events

`@row:{event}` - returns the `Event`, the row item, and the type. `row-click` event is emitted whenever a row is clicked and the row click event handler is emitted, returns the row `data`.

To avoid firing row clicks by accident, the row click handler ignores events coming from `a`, `button`, `label`, `input`, and `select` elements (unless they have the `disabled` attribute). As such click handlers attached to these element types do not require stopping propagation via `@click.stop`.

> The table in the example below contains buttons, inputs and links to demonstrate how KTableView handles clicks on different interactive elements within the table as well as clicks on its rows.

Reviewer: Let's add a small playground suggestion:
```suggestion
The table in the example below contains buttons, inputs and links to demonstrate how KTableView handles clicks on different interactive elements within the table as well as clicks on its rows.

Try clicking below on the table row, and then within elements inside the table cells.
```

<KComponent v-slot="{ data }" :data="{ rowClickEnabled: true }">
  <div class="vertical-container">
    <KInputSwitch
      v-model="data.rowClickEnabled"
      label="Row clicks"
    />
    <KTableView
      :data="numberedColumnsData"
      :headers="numberedHeaders"
      @row:click="data.rowClickEnabled ? onRowClick : undefined"
      hide-pagination
    >
      <template #column1>
        <KButton @click="onButtonClick">Button with click handler</KButton>
      </template>
      <template #column2>
        <KInput label="Table input" />
      </template>
      <template #column3>
        <KExternalLink href="https://kongponents.konghq.com/">External link</KExternalLink>
      </template>
    </KTableView>
  </div>
</KComponent>

```html
<KTableView
  :data="tableData"
  :headers="headers"
  @row:click="onRowClick"
  hide-pagination
/>
```

> ### Cell Events

Reviewer: When cell clicks are enabled in the table, should the cursor be a `pointer` on hover for cells with click events? Unsure how complex that CSS would be, but nice if possible.

Author: That's actually easy to add, done
